## 5.4 Crowdsourcing
* Use public to gather data 
  * Example, covid statistics api
* Crowdsourcing provides the ability to obtain shared information, share information, and participate in distributed computing.
* The more you crowdsource, the more you reach beyond your own community, the more you will reduce Computer Bias. 
* Crowdsourcing provides the ability to obtain shared information, share information, and participate in distributed computing.
* All information is biased, even with crowdsourcing. Still have to do some analytics to see if the data is accurate or not. 
* Wikipedia - has everything that we think of, it's not comprehensive, not intended to give us deep study
  * Britannica and Wikipedia, which is more bias? Britannica because less people work on it.

* * Widespread access to information and public data facilitates the identification of problems, development of solutions, and dissemination of results.
* Science has been affected by using distributed and “citizen science” to solve scientific problems.
* Citizen science is scientific research conducted in whole or part by distributed individuals, many of whom may not be scientists, who contribute relevant data to research using their own computing devices.
* Crowdsourcing is the practice of obtaining input or information from a large number of people via the internet.
* Human capabilities can be enhanced by collaboration via computing.
* Crowdsourcing offers new models for collaboration, such as connecting businesses or social causes with funding.Widespread access to information and public data facilitates the identification of problems, development of solutions, and dissemination of results.
* Science has been affected by using distributed and “citizen science” to solve scientific problems.
* Citizen science is scientific research conducted in whole or part by distributed individuals, many of whom may not be scientists, who contribute relevant data to research using their own computing devices.
* Crowdsourcing is the practice of obtaining input or information from a large number of people via the internet.
* Human capabilities can be enhanced by collaboration via computing.
* Crowdsourcing offers new models for collaboration, such as connecting businesses or social causes with funding.

Evidence of Crowdsourcing
* Wikipedia has a ton of information from crowdsourcing, see [Wikipedia definition on crowdsourcing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crowdsourcing). It can have inaccuracies, but when it does it often is corrected through a self-policing community. Reviews and many authors have made this, according to many, better than "official" information.
* Crypto currency and associated block chain. All exchanges of money are validated at least 3-times by independent miners. If there is a flaw in the independent calculations the process is checked and performed again. Innovation of crypto crowdsourcing has impact on how governments think about currency. Additionally, block chain algorithms are being considered for many other crowdsourcing most private data (ie medical records).
* COVID data, it is easy to recognize areas that are contributing and not contributing. This data has impacted all our lives and decision we make on attending public events, flying on planes, or wearing masks. The community of data and analysts will spawn many new ways of thinking about data that impacts lives.

Obtaining Data via Crowdsourcing
* We have all experienced Crowdsourcing by using external data through API's, namely RapidAPI. This data has influenced how we code and shown possibilities in obtaining and analyzing data.
* Additionally, we have all participated in code Crowdsourcing by using GitHub. Many of you have forked from the Teacher repository, or exchanged code with fellow students. Not only can we analyze GitHub code, but we can obtain profiles and history about the persons coding history. The Teacher presenting these videos recommends Kaggle for code and science exploration. Then of course, once we have an idea what to "Learn", the avenue of crowdsource youtube or google searched articles make the word our Teacher.

### GitHub pages actions
* CompSci has 150 principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?
  * We have a place for reviews. How do students think about this class? Rating? Where can the class improve on? Advices? etc.
* What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your final project be better with crowdsourcing?
  * Yes, since our final project is to make a new version of the Career Technical Education website, we need to include lots of information and statistics from lots of people.

